Notes for writing the Project Documentation

Note that I mean every word in this document. DonÆt skip any point or assume it is not important

Steps to write the documentation 
-Write the document structure or table of content (see next section). Take your time in it and it is highly recommended to revise it with your TA (even several times)
-The team should select a member who will be responsible for following up and finalizing the documentation who we name him/her as coordinator.
-The coordinator should distribute chapters and sections on her/his team members
-For background/related work/introduction chapters,
oSpecify/Collect resources that will be filled in each section/subsection. 
oChoose parts from these collected resources and write them in an appropriate order within each section
o[VERY IMPORTANT] Rephrase each section such that ideas in it are connected, consolidated and follow comfortable reading sequence. In this step, do formatting as well. (see formatting section)
-For chapters explaining your work, you should explain what you have done and how. Use figures and tables whenever possible. Write small snippets of the code not all. Specify all your trials (if there are several) not only the successful trial.
-Give your parts to another member in your team (who donÆt know a lot about your work). If s/he could understand your work well, then your work is complete
-The coordinator should collect all parts and complete the whole documentation by Cover pages, table of content, list of figures, list of table and merge references.  
Structure 
Your documentation should follow a balanced structure. It should be divided into chapters, sections and subsections. Keep it balanced in all chapters (i.e. the size and number of points they discuss are nearly the same in all chapters). A proposed structure is shown next, you can modify it to match your project.  
1.External Cover (colored with some fancy graphics, title, your names)
2.Internal Cover Page (text-based, faculty/Dept/university, title, names, supervisor, year)
3.Acknowledgement (a place to thank anyone you want)
4.Abstract
Abstract is the section that summarizes the whole documentation in a single page with only few paragraphs. You MUST take care about it so much because it is the most (and may be the only) readable part in the documentation. You can postpone writing this part after the end of the documentation. Its content discusses the following question.  
?What is the PROBLEM you are trying to solve? Or what is the QUESTION you are trying to answer? 
?Why is this problem/question worth solving/asking? Who would care? 
?How have other people in the past tried to solve/answer it? 
?What is your approach for solving/answering this problem? Or what improvement are you making on an existing solution (if any)? 
?How do you prove that the solution you came up with is a GOOD solution? 
?How can you demonstrate that your solution works? 

5.Table of Contents (can be automatically generated by Microsoft Word)
6.List of Figures/Tables (can be automatically generated by Microsoft Word)
7.Chapter1: Introduction 
Introduction should contain 
1.Brief about the project area and any other related topics
2.Project Motivation 
3.Problem Definition
4.Project Objectives 
5.System description, main phases, high-level block diagram/architecture, and brief description for each phase in a separate subsection.
6.Documentation organization: which tells what will be mentioned in each following chapter
8.Chapter 2
ģ.
9.Chapter N
The previous N-1 chapters discuss project modules. Modules can be defined according to the logical structure of the project. Chapter name should express on its content. At least the following points should be discussed in each chapter:
1.Module definition and its role in the whole system
2.Problems to be handled in this part
3.Possible solutions. Advantages and disadvantages of each one
4.Proposed or chosen solution and why this solution is chosen
10.Implementation and Testing  
It should contain description for your implementation (UML diagrams and sample source code), testing methodology and testing results. Results should tell the reader your system is working correctly and efficient with respect to known similar applications.
11.Conclusion and future work
Conclusion summarizes results drawn from your implementation of this project and tells readers the efficiency of your implementation. Future work shows possible improvements to your implementation
12.Appendix 1: User manual which contains screenshots for the system with procedures for how to use it
13.Appendix 2 (optional): Source code of main classes
14.Any other required Appendixes  
15.Appendix m: References

The previous structure is a suggestion. There are many other documentation structures and styles that are valid and very acceptable
Formatting Considerations
1.Unifying the Style of the documentation, by using MS Word styles and formatting (unify Font Size, and type for style). For example, let chapter name takes ōHeading 1ö, section name takes ōHeading 2ö and so on. By doing so, you can generate the table of content automatically. Also, you can change the text formatting in the whole documentation at once.
2.Unify the style of graphs and charts.
3.Use Figures/Table captions to automatically generate a list of figures/tables.
4.When writing Mathematical Equations, Use Word expression tool. 
5.If you want to take snapshot from a PDF file, ensure that the resolution and quality are good enough when this part is printed on paper.  
6.You have to use punctuation as follows:
?When starting a new paragraph leave a standard indent.
?DonÆt leave space between last word in the sentence and the full stop (.), but leave a space between (.)/ (,) and the following word. For example, [This is a sentence. These are word1, word2 and word3.]
?DonÆt leave spaces between the brackets and the words within them.
?Leave a line between each paragraph. Alternatively, change the paragraph style so that you leave a space after it.
7.References have to be arranged in the following order: Book, Thesis, Paper, then Web Sites.
8.The format of referencing book /paper is as follow: AuthorsÆ names, ōName of the book/ paperö, Publisher name/Conference or proceeding where the paper published, Date.
9.The references should be referenced by its number in the text. 

More Advices on generation of the table of content/figures 

1.Don't forget the headings so that at the end of the documentation, you can generate the "Table of Contents" and this is done through
References(in tool bar)--->Table of Contents----->choose a theme :) that's it

2.In case that you modify the chapter or section titles after generating the table of contents, right click on the table of contents---> choose update field---->choose update entire table-->ok :)

3.If there are more than three levels for subsections, 
References(in tool bar)--->Table of Contents----->insert table of contents---> modify the number of levels---->ok

4.Don't modify the ruler or margin of any page 

5.When you add a figure or an image, right click on the image--->insert caption--->then write the label that should appear below the figure.
At the end, References(in tool bar)--->insert table of figures.
